Directions
Step 1: Bake the Beans
Start off by preheating the oven to 325°. Spread the black beans evenly on a parchment-lined rimmed baking pan and bake just until beans start to split open, about 6-8 minutes.

Pro tip: Sarah urges you to not skip this step. This step gives the burgers more bite and is what makes her veggie burger simply the best.

Step 2: Toast the Nuts and Spices
While the beans are cooking, set your skillet over medium heat and add walnuts, cumin, fennel and smoked paprika, stirring frequently until fragrant, 2-3 minutes. Remove from the pan and let cool.

Pro tip: Keep an eye on the walnuts, they can go from browned to burnt in the blink of an eye!

Step 3: Bring on the Veggies
In the same skillet, heat up the oil from your sun-dried tomatoes over medium heat. Add the carrot, shallot and sun-dried tomatoes; and cook, stirring occasionally for about 5 minutes or when the carrots become tender. Add the minced garlic and cook for about a minute longer. Remove from the heat and let cool slightly.

Step 4: Break Out the Food Processor
Your patty mix is almost ready. Transfer the carrot mixture to a food processor and add the cooked beans and walnut mixture, plus the oats, chia seeds, soy sauce and garlic salt. Pulse until combined. Ta-da! Here’s the ‘meat’ of your best-ever veggie burger.

Shape into four 4-inch patties.

Step 5: Cook!
In the same skillet over medium heat, cook the patties in olive oil until browned, 3-4 minutes on each side. If desired, baste with barbecue sauce and serve on buns with toppings of your choice. Yum.

Nutrition Tips
Vegans rejoice! This burger is vegetarian AND vegan. No dairy or egg products are used to make this savory veggie burger.

Meal Prep Instructions
If you’re looking to make these burgers ahead of time, simply assemble the uncooked veggie patties and store them in an air-tight container in the refrigerator. We like to use a piece of parchment paper to keep the patties from sticking together.

These veggie burgers typically last about a week in the fridge. When you’re craving a veggie burger, remove one from your fridge and into a hot pan.

Psst! You can also freeze this recipe for later, too.